Examine v8 docs (#1682)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Reference/Searching/Examine/Quick-Start/index.md

---
versionFrom: 8.0.0
---

# Quick start

_This guide will help you get setup quickly using Examine with minimal configuration options. Umbraco ships Examine with 3 internal indexes which should not be used for searching when returning results on a public website because it indexes content that has not been published yet. It also ships with an external index that you can use to get up and running._

## Performing a search

:::note

> In the coming examples the Umbraco Starter Kit has been used, this is because it gives some content to be searched upon quickly. Some of the examples may require setting up templates, etc if you are following on your own site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the coming examples the Umbraco Starter Kit has been used, as it gives some content to be searched upon quickly. Some of the examples may require setting up templates, etc if you are following on your own site.
```

:::

> The starter kit comes with some templates and doc types and content nodes set up already, so let's just use some of those to set up a simple search system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The starter kit comes with some Templates, Document Types and content nodes set up already. We will use some of those to set up a simple search system.
```

> Let's make it possible to search on the /people page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will make it possible to search on the _People_ page.
```

> We do this by adding a search bar on the template page, so in the people.cshtml template we can add this at the top, under the nav element:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will do this by adding a search bar on the template page. In the `people.cshtml` template, add this at the top, under the `<nav>` element:
```

```csharp
...
</nav>
-->

<div>
    <form action="@Model.Url" method="get">
        <input type="text" placeholder="Search" id="query" name="query" />
        <button>Search</button>
    </form>
</div>  

<div class="employee-grid">
...
```

> This will make an input field at the top of the page and make it redirect to the same page when submitted. Now let's set up the search query using Examine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create an input field at the top of the page and make it redirect to the same page when submitted. 

Now let's set up the search query using Examine.
```

> Below the form you can add this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the form, add this:
```

```csharp
<div>
    @{
        var searchTerm = string.Empty;

        searchTerm = string.IsNullOrEmpty(Request["query"]) 
            ? string.Empty 
            : Request["query"];

        if (searchTerm == string.Empty)
        {
            <p>Enter search term</p>
        }
        else
        {
            //perform the search
        }
    }
</div>
```

> Here we are getting the request query from the form, and if the string is empty we ask them to submit a term, otherwise we will search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we are getting the request query from the form. If the string is empty we ask them to submit a term, otherwise we will search.
```

> To perform the search we will first need to get the index and the searcher, so within the else condition add this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform the search we will first need to get the index and the searcher. We will do that by adding the following to the `else` condition:
```

```csharp
else
{
    //perform the search
    //first we try to get the index, it is the ExternalIndex as we don't want to return unpublished things
    //it returns the index in the var index
    if(ExamineManager.Instance.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out var index))
    {
        var searcher = index.GetSearcher();
        var results = searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", searchTerm).Execute();

        if (results.Any())
        {
            <ul>
                @foreach (var result in results)
                {
                    if (result.Id != null)
                    {
                        var node = Umbraco.Content(result.Id);
                        <li>
                            <a href="@node.Url">@node.Name</a>
                        </li>
                    }
                }
            </ul>
        }
        else
        {
            <p>No results found for query @searchTerm</p>
        }
    }

    return;
}
```

> At this point we have chosen to use the External index and its searcher, the query is then built. I

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point we have chosen to use the External index and its searcher. The query is then built. I
```

> n this case we are searching all `content` with doc type `person` where the `nodeName` is equal to the searchterm that was typed in the input bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
n this case we are searching all `content` using the `person` Document Type, where the `nodeName` is equal to the search term that was typed in the input bar.
```

        </div>

        <div class="employee-grid">
            @foreach (ContentModels.Person person in Model.Children)
            {

                <div class="employee-grid__item">
                    <div class="employee-grid__item__image" style="background-image: url('@person.Photo.Url')"></div>
                    <div class="employee-grid__item__details">
                        <h3 class="employee-grid__item__name">@person.Name</h3>
                        @if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(person.Email))
                        {
                            <a href="mailto:@person.Email" class="employee-grid__item__email">@person.Email</a>
                        }
                        <div class="employee-grid__item__contact">
                            @SocialLink(person.FacebookUsername, "Facebook")
                            @SocialLink(person.TwitterUsername, "Twitter")
                            @SocialLink(person.LinkedInUsername, "LinkedIn")
                            @SocialLink(person.InstagramUsername, "Instagram")
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            }
        </div>
    </div>

</section>
```

> ### Different ways to query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Different ways to query
```

> Examine has a lot of different ways to query data, building upon the example from before, here are a few other searches that can be done to get different data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examine has a lot of different ways to query data. Building upon the example from before, here are a few other searches that can be done to get different data:
```

> #### Search through all nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Search through all nodes
```

> Let's say you want to search through **all content nodes** by their **file names**, you could amend the query from before like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you want to search through **all content nodes** by their **file names**. You could amend the query from before like this:
```

```csharp
var results = searcher.CreateQuery("content").Field("nodeName", searchTerm).Execute();
```

> #### Search using Lucene queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Search using Lucene queries
```

> Let's say you want to do the search above, but only use Lucene to query, you could amend the query from before like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do the search like above, but only use Lucene to query, amend the query from before like this:
```

```csharp
var results = searcher.CreateQuery().NativeQuery("+__IndexType:content +nodeName:" + searchTerm).Execute();
```

> #### Search children of a specific node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Search children of a specific node
```

> Let's say you want to search through **all child nodes of a specific node** by their **bodyText property**, you could amend the query from before like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To search through **all child nodes of a specific node** by their **bodyText property**, amend the query from before like this:
```
